----
Processed Text:
In the weeks and months after Donald Trump won his shock election victory in 2016, business and tech leaders began a steady march leftward, adopting policies and postures to counter his influence on America.
Media outlets reckoned with what some saw as their leading role in helping Trump get elected and pledged to be ruthless and unintimidated in their coverage of him and his administration.
And Democrats, boosted by a grassroots resistance, readied for their biggest fight yet.
That couldnt be any more different from the runup to Trumps second term.
Now, executives are bending policies  and bending a proverbial knee  by abandoning their social and environmental agendas in manners that could appeal to Trump. Leaders of multiple major media platforms appear to be reorienting their coverage to be less antagonistic. And Democrats, without much of an active resistance to underpin them, have taken a waitandsee approach to a new president with whom they already have eight years of experience.
We should treat him like a normal president, a senior aide to a Democratic senator said. Because this is what normal presidents look like in America now.
The shift is due in no small part to how Trump won last fall. Whereas in 2016 many saw a fluke, Trump this time swept the swing states and won the popular vote. His victory came after episodes like the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol and his criminal indictments  headwinds many believed were insurmountable.
Whats more, much of his opposition, at least for now, appears to be drained after having fought him for nearly a decade. Now, Democrats feel they must pick their spots better.
My mission be purposeful, Rep. Eric Swalwell, DCalif., whose profile soared as a leading Trump adversary during the presidentelects first term, wrote to NBC News. Dont chase the crazy. Bring it all back to how does that ahem, invading Greenland lower the cost of eggs
In turn, Trump is basking in a relatively warm embrace. His inaugural committee has raised so much money that it has run out of perks to give donors,  Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, which banned Trump from those social media platforms after the 2021 attack on the Capitol, has donated 1 million to his inaugural fund. So has Amazon, which this week announced it will release  through its Amazon Prime platform. The incoming first lady is listed as an executive producer of the project, which Amazon licensed for 40 million, 
On Tuesday, Meta CEO  as his company made  indicating a desire to get right with the right. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, meanwhile,  about Trumps potential antiregulatory agenda in a new term. And  have in recent weeks announced their withdrawals from a pandemicera climate coalition, the latest pullback from the environmental, social and corporate governance, or ESG, initiatives that became a major target for criticism on the right.
Maybe Im overthinking it, but it is a little concerning that everybody sort of just said, Weve got to give this guy what he wants, right a Pennsylvania Democrat said. I just dont know where the backstop is here.
Trump views the dynamic more charitably.
Everybody wants to be my friend, he 
NBC News spoke with more than a dozen Democratic and Republican operatives and lobbyists, granting many of them anonymity to speak openly about the shifting energy that has followed Trumps win.
A Republican lobbyist said the significant donations to Trumps inaugural fund and the abandonment of leftleaning corporate policies come as executives are scared to death of what the incoming administration could mean for them.
Theyre going to pretend like theyre in control, this person said, adding, Theyre just kind of nervous about being shut out entirely.
Theyre pulling out of work from home. ESG. DEI, this person continued, referring to diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Theyre bending to his will, not the other way around.
Surrender, or acceptance
Metas moves are among the most noteworthy. The company plans to elevate Republican Joel Kaplan to  and on Monday it  Meta also announced it was ending a factchecking program and replacing it with a communitydriven system similar to the one Trump ally Elon Musks X uses. And Zuckerberg boasted that the company was relocating content moderators from liberal California to ruby red Texas.
Remember, at the start of Trumps first term, the mantra on the left is to not normalize, a veteran tech industry lobbyist said. Do not normalize. Thats no longer the case.
So its not just a question for the tech companies, but a larger societal, cultural and political issue, this person added. Its a kind of surrender, or acceptance.
Eight years ago many top tech executives treated Trump as something of a curiosity. Meetings with him were  Relationships soon worsened. Trump stridently criticized Bezos and the newspaper he owns, The Washington Post. Zuckerberg, too, was a frequent target, including last year, when Trump  if he did anything Trump viewed as illegal during the campaign. Both men have  with Trump  as have 
A source close to Trump said tech executives like Zuckerberg and Bezos are smart to play ball with him in a way they werent eight years ago.
They know the antiTrump side lost, and they know if they arent playing nice with him, hell try to bust them up, this person said. Its probably a mix of fear, a mix of timesarechanging.
A Republican operative close to Trumps circle described corporate Americas response to the 2024 election as the exact inverse of its response after 2016.
Its pretty clear that culturally,  and other companies feel like You know what We actually dont need to be bullied by activists anymore, the operative said.
Against that backdrop, intense disputes have broken out at a number of leading news organizations, including Bezos Post as the newsroom navigates Trumps return to power.
The Post, even though its editorial page staff drafted an endorsement of Vice President Kamala Harris, declined back a presidential candidate    just two weeks before the election. Last week, Pulitzer Prizewinning cartoonist Ann Telnaes  after editors refused to publish her drawing depicting Bezos and other corporate leaders bending the knee to Trump. The Posts editorial page editor said the cartoon was rejected because the content was too similar to a recent column and that the decision was not a reflection of a malign force.
Meanwhile, the owner of the Los Angeles Times, Patrick SoonShiong,  last year when he killed his editorial boards planned endorsement of Harris. SoonShiong has since proposed instituting a bias meter to evaluate the papers published opinions 
At broadcast and cable outlets, there has been turmoil, too.  to settle a defamation lawsuit with Trump. And at MSNBC, Morning Joe hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, who have been known for their critical stance toward Trump in recent years,  to meet with him after the election. Both episodes drew some criticism. While ABC did not elaborate on its decision to settle the suit, Scarborough and Brzezinski have  with Trump as a useful reporting trip that helped inform their viewers.
No ones quite sure what to do
For Democrats, this is a confusing time. Many statelevel leaders say they will find areas to work together with the administration while they push back against efforts they believe are harmful. In Congress, Democrats have expressed openness to some of Trumps more controversial Cabinet selections, like his pick for the Department of Health and Human Services, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Others signed onto a Republicanbacked immigration bill that advanced in the Senate on Thursday, the Laken Riley Act, which would allow the Department of Homeland Security to 
No ones quite sure what to do, the Pennsylvania Democrat said. I havent seen anything yet that shows me anybodys quite ready for this.
Democrats, including Colorado Gov. Jared Polis and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, of New York, have  to Trumps calls to annex Greenland or rename the Gulf of Mexico  if other conditions are met first. Sen. John Fetterman, DPa., who has expressed more openness to Trump than his Democratic colleagues, announced Thursday that he will soon meet with Trump,  to do so since Trump won last fall.
Its unnecessary to commit to cooperation with him at this point, the Pennsylvania Democrat said, adding, Theres nothing to gain from that.
In  many Senate Democrats laid out their posture entering a second Trump administration.
We are not here because of who we are against, the senators read. We are here because of who we are for.  We are here to fight for Americans. We will work with anyone if they want to make life better for you. But if Donald Trump and Senate Republicans do things to hurt you, we will fight.
The Republican operative close to Trumps circle said its clear that this time around the Democratic response is 100 different from what it was after Trumps 2016 win.
The resistance is dead, this person said. There is no resistance anymore.
But without Trumps even having taken office yet, some Democrats say its far too soon to write off the antiTrump opposition. Once he begins enacting policies, Democrats and outside allies will have more to push back on.
Amanda Litman, a cofounder and the president of Run for Something, a grassroots progressive candidate recruitment group, said more than 12,000 people have signed up to run for offices since Trumps victory, a number she said nearly matched the total number of people who signed up in 2017, its launch year.
A lot of the big resistance stuff didnt really start happening until after Trump actually took office, she said. It feels really early to say the resistance is fake or is dead. I think itll look different. I think itll feel different.
Both Democrats and Republicans also urged caution on the olive branches and calls for bipartisanship Democrats have offered in recent weeks, noting that after Trumps 2016 victory,  in which the incoming administration and Democratic leaders could work together  an effort that in no way stunted the antiTrump backlash.
But for Democrats who were working in Washington during Trumps last transition, there was acknowledgment that something very different is happening now  and that there is a wider array of policies Democrats will be more likely to work with Trump and his allies on, with the Laken Riley Act serving as an early example.
There is an openness here this time that just did not exist last time, said the senior aide to a Democratic senator. And I think its especially  on immigration.
This person said the driving force was the election itself. Democrats viewed 2016 as a freak accident compared with 2024, amounting to having flatout lost.
We got to sit here in the corner for a little bit until they start doing their thing, and well figure out our footing from that point, this person said. I dont think there is any agreement on what Democrats should be doing right now.
That doesnt mean Democrats will stand by idly during, say, Trumps mass deportation effort, as a former senior staff member for Presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden said. This person said China policy, infrastructure, drug pricing and reshoring manufacturing are all policy areas in which Democrats will seek to work with Trump while fighting tooth and nail against mass deportations or any efforts to weaponize the Justice Department.
The party is going through a moment of disbelief that they lost, this person said.
Its even trickier at the state level, where many of the Democratic Partys top presidential prospects reside. Governors including Gretchen Whitmer in Michigan, Gavin Newsom in California  whom Trump has  for devastating wildfires around Los Angeles  Josh Shapiro in Pennsylvania and JB Pritzker in Illinois try to toe a fine line.
Were all working together, obviously, but theres a little bit of an island for each governor, said a senior aide to a Democratic governor. Obviously Pritzkers got the  Gavin Newsom is calling special sessions. I think everybodys trying to individually find their path forward, to be unique in a way that doesnt draw unnecessary attention but highlights that you know they care about their own particular state.
Democratic pollster John Anzalone said newfound bipartisanship is a winning equation for everyone in this moment, particularly at the state level. He praised remarks by Whitmer.
Look at Whitmer,  and we will work with him to get done what is needed for Michigan, he said. It is important to stand up when he is wrong and just as important to come together and get things done.
But that approach has roiled some on the left, who struggle to believe Democrats can be taking such a waitandsee approach to a president whose actions and governance arent mysteries.
To see some Democrats saying, Well, well just wait and see  no, we actually dont need to wait and see, said Ezra Levin, a cofounder of Indivisible, a progressive grassroots group. We have the better part of a decade of evidence and all his campaign promises to tell us what he intends to do..

Sentiment Analysis:
  Positive: 49.96%
  Negative: 50.04%

Key Phrases:
Trump, Democrats Rep, Eric, Times, Donald, Don, Greenland, Democrats Democratic, Democrats, America, NBC News, D Calif, Capitol

Named Entities:
  Donald Trump (I-PER)
  America (I-LOC)
  Trump (I-PER)
  Democrats (I-MISC)
  Trump (I-PER)
  Democrats Democratic (I-MISC)
  America (I-LOC)
  Trump (I-PER)
  Capitol (I-LOC)
  Democrats Rep (I-MISC)
  Eric Swalwell (I-PER)
  DC (I-LOC)
  Trump (I-PER)
  NBC News (I-ORG)
  Greenland (I-LOC)
  Trump (I-PER)
  Facebook (I-ORG)
  Trump (I-PER)
  Capitol Amazon Prime (I-ORG)


Persuasive Contexts:
In the weeks and months after Donald Trump won his shock election victory in 2016, business and tech leaders began a steady march leftward, adopting policies and postures to counter his influence on America.
Media outlets reckoned with what some saw as their leading role in helping Trump get elected and pledged to be ruthless and unintimidated in their coverage of him and his administration.
And Democrats, boosted by a grassroots resistance, readied for their biggest fight yet.
That couldnt be any more different from the runup to Trumps second term.
Now, executives are bending policies  and bending a proverbial knee  by abandoning their social and environmental agendas in manners that could appeal to Trump
And Democrats, without much of an active resistance to underpin them, have taken a waitandsee approach to a new president with whom they already have eight years of experience.
We should treat him like a normal president, a senior aide to a Democratic senator said
Now, Democrats feel they must pick their spots better.
My mission be purposeful, Rep
His inaugural committee has raised so much money that it has run out of perks to give donors,  Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, which banned Trump from those social media platforms after the 2021 attack on the Capitol, has donated 1 million to his inaugural fund
I just dont know where the backstop is here.
Trump views the dynamic more charitably.
Everybody wants to be my friend, he 
NBC News spoke with more than a dozen Democratic and Republican operatives and lobbyists, granting many of them anonymity to speak openly about the shifting energy that has followed Trumps win.
A Republican lobbyist said the significant donations to Trumps inaugural fund and the abandonment of leftleaning corporate policies come as executives are scared to death of what the incoming administration could mean for them.
Theyre going to pretend like theyre in control, this person said, adding, Theyre just kind of nervous about being shut out entirely.
Theyre pulling out of work from home
Its probably a mix of fear, a mix of timesarechanging.
A Republican operative close to Trumps circle described corporate Americas response to the 2024 election as the exact inverse of its response after 2016.
Its pretty clear that culturally,  and other companies feel like You know what We actually dont need to be bullied by activists anymore, the operative said.
Against that backdrop, intense disputes have broken out at a number of leading news organizations, including Bezos Post as the newsroom navigates Trumps return to power.
The Post, even though its editorial page staff drafted an endorsement of Vice President Kamala Harris, declined back a presidential candidate    just two weeks before the election
The Posts editorial page editor said the cartoon was rejected because the content was too similar to a recent column and that the decision was not a reflection of a malign force.
Meanwhile, the owner of the Los Angeles Times, Patrick SoonShiong,  last year when he killed his editorial boards planned endorsement of Harris
SoonShiong has since proposed instituting a bias meter to evaluate the papers published opinions 
At broadcast and cable outlets, there has been turmoil, too
And at MSNBC, Morning Joe hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, who have been known for their critical stance toward Trump in recent years,  to meet with him after the election
John Fetterman, DPa., who has expressed more openness to Trump than his Democratic colleagues, announced Thursday that he will soon meet with Trump,  to do so since Trump won last fall.
Its unnecessary to commit to cooperation with him at this point, the Pennsylvania Democrat said, adding, Theres nothing to gain from that.
In  many Senate Democrats laid out their posture entering a second Trump administration.
We are not here because of who we are against, the senators read
I think itll feel different.
Both Democrats and Republicans also urged caution on the olive branches and calls for bipartisanship Democrats have offered in recent weeks, noting that after Trumps 2016 victory,  in which the incoming administration and Democratic leaders could work together  an effort that in no way stunted the antiTrump backlash.
But for Democrats who were working in Washington during Trumps last transition, there was acknowledgment that something very different is happening now  and that there is a wider array of policies Democrats will be more likely to work with Trump and his allies on, with the Laken Riley Act serving as an early example.
There is an openness here this time that just did not exist last time, said the senior aide to a Democratic senator
I dont think there is any agreement on what Democrats should be doing right now.
That doesnt mean Democrats will stand by idly during, say, Trumps mass deportation effort, as a former senior staff member for Presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden said
I think everybodys trying to individually find their path forward, to be unique in a way that doesnt draw unnecessary attention but highlights that you know they care about their own particular state.
Democratic pollster John Anzalone said newfound bipartisanship is a winning equation for everyone in this moment, particularly at the state level
It is important to stand up when he is wrong and just as important to come together and get things done.
But that approach has roiled some on the left, who struggle to believe Democrats can be taking such a waitandsee approach to a president whose actions and governance arent mysteries.
To see some Democrats saying, Well, well just wait and see  no, we actually dont need to wait and see, said Ezra Levin, a cofounder of Indivisible, a progressive grassroots group
We have the better part of a decade of evidence and all his campaign promises to tell us what he intends to do..
----

Summary:
Media outlets reckoned with what some saw as their leading role in helping Trump get elected. They pledged to be ruthless and unintimidated in their coverage of him and his administration. Now, executives are bending policies and bending a proverbial knee.
----

